TELCODOCS-646 PR for configure power savings states (#56865)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-using-pgt-to-maximize-power-saving-mode.adoc

.Procedure

. Update the `PolicyGenTemplate` entry for `TunedPerformancePatch` in the `group-du-sno-ranGen.yaml` reference file in `out/argocd/example/policygentemplates`. To maximize power savings, add `max_perf_pct` as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
- fileName: TunedPerformancePatch.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch
            # The cmdline_crash CPU set must match the 'isolated' set in the PerformanceProfile above
            data: |
              [main]
              summary=Configuration changes profile inherited from performance created tuned
              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=2-19,22-39
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate/max_perf_pct=<x> <1>
              [scheduler]
              group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
              [service]
              service.stalld=start,enable

>               service.chronyd=stop,disable

Author: added with [...]

----
+
<1> 	The `max_perf_pct` controls the maximum frequency the cpufreq driver is allowed to set as a percentage of the maximum supported CPU frequency. This value applies to all CPUs. This value applies to all CPUs. You can check the maximum supported frequency in `/sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_max_freq`. As a starting point, you can use a percentage that caps all CPUs at the `All Cores Turbo` frequency. The `All Cores Turbo` frequency is the frequency that all cores will run at when the cores are all fully occupied.
+
[NOTE]
====
To maximize power savings set a low value. Setting a low value limits the maximum CPU frequency, thereby reducing power consumption and heat generation, but also potentially impacting performance. Experiment with different values and monitor the system's performance and power consumption to find the optimal setting for your needs.
====

> . Commit the `PolicyGenTemplate` change in Git, and then push to the Git repository being monitored by the GitOps ZTP argo CD application.

Author: I am being consistent with the guidance already developed here https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-advanced-policy-config.html#ztp-using-pgt-to-update-source-crs_ztp-advanced-policy-config. I am going to keep with that

        /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate/max_perf_pct=50
        [scheduler]
        group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
        [service]
        service.stalld=start,enable
        service.chronyd=stop,disable
  recommend:
    - machineConfigLabels:
        machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: "$mcp"
      priority: 19
      profile: performance-patch
----

[NOTE]
====
In the `/source-crs` folder that you extract from the `ztp-site-generate` container,  the `$` syntax is not used for template substitution as implied by the syntax. Rather, if the `policyGen` tool sees the `$` prefix for a string and you do not specify a value for that field in the related `PolicyGenTemplate` CR, the field is omitted from the output CR entirely.

An exception to this is the `$mcp` variable in `/source-crs` YAML files that is substituted with the specified value for `mcp` from the `PolicyGenTemplate` CR. For example, in `example/policygentemplates/group-du-standard-ranGen.yaml`, the value for `mcp` is `worker`:

[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  bindingRules:
    group-du-standard: ""
  mcp: "worker"
----

The `policyGen` tool replaces instances of `$mcp` with `worker` in the output CRs.

> ====

Author: I removed this section

.Prerequisites

* You have configured power savings mode as described in "Using PolicyGenTemplate CRs to configure power savings mode".

.Procedeure

. Update the `PolicyGenTemplate` entry for `TunedPerformancePatch` in the `group-du-sno-ranGen.yaml` reference file in `out/argocd/example/policygentemplates` adding `max_perf_pct` as follows to maximize power savings.
+
[source,yaml]
----
- fileName: TunedPerformancePatch.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch
            # The cmdline_crash CPU set must match the 'isolated' set in the PerformanceProfile above
            data: |
              [main]
              summary=Configuration changes profile inherited from performance created tuned
              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=2-19,22-39
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              - fileName: TunedPerformancePatch.yaml

>       policyName: "config-policy"

Reviewer: It looks like part of this YAML is accidentally duplicated. There should only be one `policyName` and accompanying `spec`. The second one looks correct

Reviewer: changes lgtm

      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch
            # The cmdline_crash CPU set must match the 'isolated' set in the PerformanceProfile above
            data: |
              [main]
              summary=Configuration changes profile inherited from performance created tuned
              include=openshift-node-performance-openshift-node-performance-profile
              [bootloader]
              cmdline_crash=nohz_full=2-19,22-39
              [sysctl]
              kernel.timer_migration=1
              /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate/max_perf_pct=<x> <1>

>               [scheduler]

Reviewer: Is this `[scheduler] `supposed to be duplicated a few lines below?

Reviewer: changes lgtm

              group.ice-ptp=0:f:10:*:ice-ptp.*
              [service]
              service.stalld=start,enable
              service.chronyd=stop,disable
----
+
<1> 	The `max_perf_pct` controls the maximum frequency the cpufreq driver is allowed to set as a percentage of the maximum supported CPU frequency. This value applies to all CPUs.
+
[NOTE]
====
To maximize power savings set a low value. Setting a low value limits the maximum CPU frequency, thereby reducing power consumption and heat generation, but also potentially impacting performance. Experiment with different values and monitor the system's performance and power consumption to find the optimal setting for your needs.
====

. Commit the `PolicyGenTemplate` change in Git, and then push to the Git repository being monitored by the GitOps ZTP argo CD application.

.Example output

The ZTP application generates an {rh-rhacm} policy that contains the generated `TunedPerformancePatch` CR. The contents of that CR are derived by merging the `metadata` and `spec` contents from the `TunedPerformancePatch` entry in the `PolicyGenTemplate` onto the source CR. The resulting CR has the following content:

[source,yaml]
----
---

> apiVersion: tuned.openshift.io/v1

Reviewer: The CR contents should be based on the second part of what I mentioned above

Reviewer: changes lgtm

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/ztp_far_edge/ztp-advanced-policy-config.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-using-pgt-to-maximize-power-savings-mode_{context}"]
= Optional: Maximizing power savings

> `PolicyGenTemplate` custom resources (CRs) allow you to overlay additional configuration details onto the base source CRs provided with the GitOps plugin in the `ztp-site-generate` container.

Reviewer 2: Refer to earlier comment.

> Capping the maximum CPU frequency is recommended to achieve maximum power savings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Limiting the maximum CPU frequency is recommended to achieve maximum power savings.
```

.Procedure

. Update the `PolicyGenTemplate` entry for `TunedPerformancePatch` in the `group-du-sno-ranGen.yaml` reference file in `out/argocd/example/policygentemplates`. To maximize power savings, add `max_perf_pct` as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
- fileName: TunedPerformancePatch.yaml
      policyName: "config-policy"
      spec:
        profile:
          - name: performance-patch
            # The cmdline_crash CPU set must match the 'isolated' set in the PerformanceProfile above
            data: |
              [...]
              [sysfs]
              /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate/max_perf_pct=<x> <1>
----
+
<1> 	The `max_perf_pct` controls the maximum frequency the `cpufreq` driver is allowed to set as a percentage of the maximum supported CPU frequency. This value applies to all CPUs. You can check the maximum supported frequency in `/sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/cpuinfo_max_freq`. As a starting point, you can use a percentage that caps all CPUs at the `All Cores Turbo` frequency. The `All Cores Turbo` frequency is the frequency that all cores will run at when the cores are all fully occupied.
+
[NOTE]
====

> To maximize power savings, set a low value. Setting a low value `max_perf_pct` for limits the maximum CPU frequency, thereby reducing power consumption and heat generation, but also potentially impacting performance. Experiment with different values and monitor the system's performance and power consumption to find the optimal setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To maximize power savings, set a lower value. Setting a lower value for `max_perf_pct` limits the maximum CPU frequency, thereby reducing power consumption, but also potentially impacting performance. Experiment with different values and monitor the system's performance and power consumption to find the optimal setting for your use-case.
```
